Congratulations on becoming a data
analyst who can officially claim
to know how to use SQL.
Your perseverance through all
the queries you've now mastered
has significantly increased your earning
potential as well as your ability to
provide real value to your business.
In doing so, I hope it has also inspired
you to learn more about databases and
give you confidence that, with a little
hard work, you can learn all kinds of new
things about the data and technology
world that can enhance your career.
If you've gone through all
the exercises in this course,
you know enough to immediately
start using SQL in your job.
As you do that, though, you might find you
have new questions about how to design
queries or make them more efficient.
You have at least a couple approaches
available to you in these situations.
The first is the Internet.
The Internet has a wealth of resources
to help you learn SQL functions in
different ways.
Or you can ask an online community for
advice on how to handle specific problems.
One of the most popular
resources developers and
learners use is stackoverflow.com,
which defines itself as a collaboratively
edited question and
answer site for programmers.
Any time you have a SQL question,
my advice is to search this site first.
There's a very good chance somebody else
has already had the same question or
similar problem so you will be
able to see how they solved it.
You can also post new questions.
When you do, multiple people in
the programming community usually respond
to help you out.
Another course of action you can take when
you have a SQL question or run into a SQL
problem is to ask for help from other
programmers at your own workplace.
Especially because they will know
your company's database environment
better than anybody on the internet.
Now I know that might sound a little
bit scary to do at first because
you are worried that you are supposed
to know everything about databases by
the time you're hired for an analyst job.
I want to assure you that that
is decidedly not the case.
The tech world moves so quickly,
that nobody knows every analytics or
programming tool out there anymore.
There simply aren't enough hours in
the day to learn every single program and
every single language, and data driven
companies know this particularly well.
That's precisely why it is so
important to job recruiters,
to hire people who are eager to learn.
For self motivated trying new things, and
who aren't intimidated by the prospect of
applying new tools they just
learned to the real situations.
What recruiters want to see is
that you get yourself in there and
work your way through problems,
not that you know everything.
Here's Ryan Luecke again, sharing his
experience about when he joined Box.
>> I definitely feel comfortable asking
people at Box for help on the job.
I didn't actually start out knowing
anything about web applications.
Databases was the only operative course
I did not take at my university and
so I do have a lot of questions
when it comes to databases.
However, the people at
Box are super helpful and
willing to share what they know and
I owe them a lot of what I know now.
And that's been crucial.
Okay, my experience is that since people
don't expect you to know everything,
in reality, asking is okay.
In fact, a lot of the most senior
engineers ask a lot of questions because
it's not possible to know everything.
Even if you were really smart or
you had a lot of experience in a lot of
areas you won't be kept up to date on
everything there is to know about every
piece of technology and every database.
Oh, wow.
Hold on a second these lights are dimming.
This is bizarre.
And this is like a new building?
I mean, a new office?
I'm going to jack up the lights in here.
I think I just haven't moved.
>> I was particularly eager to share
that last clip with you because it shows
that even a senior engineer at Box
can have technological problems;
even problems as simple
as turning on the lights.
Once Ryan got the lights back on,
he had this helpful parting thought.
>> So don't be afraid to learn.
And to ask questions.
And to find colleagues and
people who will help you because
no one is born knowing it.
You're going to have
to learn it somewhere.
>> Upon hearing this advice from Ryan and
I, you might be thinking okay, fine.
Maybe it's okay to ask questions but
what if I make a mistake?
Won't people think I'm unqualified and
wonder why they hired
me in the first place?
That is a very common concern for
people who are new to the technology
side of the business world.
But that too is not something
you should worry too much about.
The tech world is so reliant on
people's ability to learn new things,
that people make mistakes all the time.
Here's Elena Grewal,
Data Science Manager at Air BNB,
sharing her perspective about
making mistakes on the job.
>> So there are so
many times we have gotten things wrong.
So I have many examples of that.
That said, I think a really
important culture to have on
any team is the culture of
bringing forward any errors.
And, that being celebrated,
that we understand that
everyone will make mistakes.
And the most important thing
is actually to say when
you realize that you've made a mistake so
that we can correct it.
So I think the biggest problems that
companies will have is when someone's made
a mistake and they're either too afraid or
worried to bring it forward.
And so that's definitely
a huge part of our culture.
>> So you see, having the confidence to
ask for help when you get into trouble or
don't know how to do something.
Will be much more useful and admired than
hiding the fact that you are stuck and
don't know how to proceed.
By learning SQL you have already shown
your future employees that you embrace
the data driven nature
of the business world.
Don't be afraid to embrace the entire
culture that comes along with being so
focused on data.
It's a culture of intense curiosity,
perpetual learning, and
exciting new adventures
around every corner.
Asking question will be your fuel,
your inspiration, and
your greatest weapon in
this fast paced community.
I am so excited to hear about
the questions you ask to move
the field forward.
As my parting gift to you before you go
off to make your data discoveries, here is
the link that might help you remember all
of the things you learned in this course.